stranger things season three's come and
gone and we're left waiting for Netflix
to announce if and when season four will
be coming our way to stay busy in the
meantime I've gone ahead and updated our
timeline from a few weeks ago with all
of the events of stranger things season
3 so for now this timeline is complete
but to start the video I'm gonna need
you to either tell me Planck's constant
or just sing me a beloved movies theme
song either or 1953 to 1982 welcome to
Hawkins in 1953 MKULTRA the real actual
CIA program to study mind control begins
and operations kick off at Hawkins
National Lab eventually Terry I've signs
up for MKULTRA under the supervision of
dr. Brenner once she becomes pregnant
Brenner starts planning to keep the
unborn child as a test subject when
Terry gives birth to her daughter Jane
in 1971 Brenner kidnaps the baby brings
her back to the lab and gives her a new
name eleven three years later Terry
breaks into Hawkins lab to take Jane
back but just as she finds Jane and
Callie in the Rainbow Room Terry's
caught and forced to undergo
electroconvulsive therapy
the scientists leave her in a catatonic
state and then release her to her sister
Becky from here Becky becomes her
caretaker at some point over the next
few years Callie escapes from Hawkins
lab and begins taking revenge on those
who worked there a little later 1979 is
a bad year for Jim hopper his daughter
Sara passes away from what's probably
cancer he and his wife Diane split and
he moves back to Hawkins from the big
city to work as the chief of police fans
speculate that the big city is New York
based on boxes you can see in his
grandfather's cabin in season two he's
talking about a downgrade have you ever
tried to get a bagel in Indiana
no wonder he's depressed in 1982 Joyce
and Lonnie Byers get a divorce
Lonnie moves to Indianapolis and joy
stays and Hawkins to raise their two
sons Jonathan and well but at least
Jonathan introduces well to his favorite
song should I stay or should I go by the
clash so that's something right
personally I would have gone with
something off of London Calling because
combat rock is the clashes worst album
but I'd I'm just spitballing here
November 6 to December 12th 1983 season
1 and the demagogue Ian earlier that
year 11 participates in an experiment in
the sensory deprivation tank where she's
ordered to spy on a Russian agent
probably a member of the KGB
at first the experiment is a success he
talks about the possibility of Russian
spies being exposed on American soil
unaware that he is being spied on but
when the conversation ends she sees the
demagogue and pan
and then everything kicks off on
November 6th dr. brenner orders 11 back
into the void to make contact with the
monster
unfortunately for literally everyone as
soon as she touches the creature a rift
is formed between the dimensions which
is known as the gate the demagogue and
enters our dimension and in the chaos of
all the explosions and the bad times and
whatnot 11 escapes from the lab sometime
after that the monster pulls will who's
biking home after a regular night of DMD
with the boys into the other dimension
henceforth called the upside down early
the next morning Joyce realizes will is
missing and ghosts the police at first
hopper is dismissive thinking will might
just be playing hooky on the other side
of town 11:00 breaks into Betty's
burgers and tries to steal some food for
herself
Benny feeds her though in later call
social services hopper and his deputies
search the woods for will and when he
finds wills bike hopper begins to take
the case seriously then this bad lady
from Hawkins lab who the internet tells
me is called Connie Fraser shows up and
kills Benny staging it as a suicide
which honestly is one of the most
heartbreaking moments of the show he was
a good dude and he just wanted to go
fishing
rest in peace Benny I hope you're
catching macro in the stars at this
point Will's friends Mike Lucas and
Dustin decide to start searching the
woods for him but instead they run into
eleven they take her back to Mike's
place and set her up in a pretty dope
tent in the basement the next day a
larger search party sites have to look
for will Mike stays home with Elle and
gets her hooked on Eggos she reveals
that she's seen will and that bad men
are after her when Lucas and Dustin come
over after school she reveals her
telekinetic powers by slamming a door
closed while Hawkins lab agents are
snooping around the buyers house
Jonathon is hanging missing-person
flyers at a school Stephen Co laugh at
him but Nancy tries to be supportive
Jonathon then leave school and drive to
Indianapolis to see if Will's there with
his dad when Hopper finds Benny's body
he's not convinced it's a suicide and
later that night when mr. Clark finds a
scrap of fabric and a pipe that leads to
Hawkins lab hoppers even more suspicious
he starts to believe that Hawkins lab is
involved in wills disappearance that
same night Nancy and Barb go to a party
at Steve's house what well it's more of
a gathering there's only five people
anyway while everyone is splashing
around in Steve's pool poor barb cuts
her hand on a beer can and then Nancy
tells barb to go home before going
upstairs with Steve to listen to Toto's
Africa in the nude that's that's that's
what sex is right you just take off your
clothes and listen to Africa it sounds
pretty good actually
sneaking around in the trees Jonathan
takes some creepy pictures of Nancy and
Steve but also snags one of a very sad
barb after he leaves the demagogue or
gun pulls barb into the upside-down
hashtag justice for barber back at the
buyers house joyce gets a call and
here's wills voice which starts her
paranormal investigation the next
morning Nancy doesn't see barb at school
so see kids the lesson is if you have
premarital sex your friends will be
pulled into another dimension and eaten
by a monster from an RPG that sounds
like something that I would learn from
scream rather than stranger things but
whatever yes that's the moral Nancy goes
poking around Steve's house and finds
Barb's car but also the demagoguing she
calls Barb's mom and finds out that barb
hasn't been home all night once Steve
learns about Jonathan's creepy ass photo
shoot he confronts him breaking his
camera and tearing his pictures Nancy
collects the torn pieces and discovers
the photo that shows barb
meanwhile hoppin coat check out the
Hawkins National Lab hopper like the
cool guy he is totally catches the
scientists in a lie while doing some
research he and his team discovered that
dr. brenner was involved in MKULTRA and
start to read about Terry Ives meanwhile
Joyce is investigating - she hangs up
the Christmas lights and will begins to
communicate with her through the lights
and it's going pretty well until the
devil organ appears seems to always ruin
stuff whatever it shows up 11 takes the
kids on what seems to be a psychic
wild-goose chase to the buyers house the
kids don't know all about the parallel
dimension and are frustrated just that a
bunch of cop cars raised by the kids
follow them and end up at the quarry
just in time to see them fish out wills
body Mike is understandably angry and
calls L a liar back at Mike's house
though she proves that will is still
alive by making his voice come through
Mike's radio the boys decided to bring
Elle to school the next day so they can
use the cool radio that mr. Clark got
them to talk to will but not before
giving Elle the makeover that sparked a
million Halloween costumes before they
can get to the radio mr. Clark makes
them go to assembly for will standard
eighties mouth-breather bullies Troy &
Co have the gall to laugh during it so
Mike picks a fight to stick up for his
friend justice is served when 11 makes
Troy pees pants in front of the whole
school when they finally get the radio
they hear will talking to Joyce but the
radio catches fire before they can learn
more later they finally understand that
wil is in the upside down Nancy talks to
the deputies about Barb's disappearance
and learns that her car is missing
anxious to do something Nancy puts
together Jonathan's torn up photo and
teams up with him together they enlarge
the photo revealing the demagoguing
even after seeing wills body Hopper has
his doubts so after some cop punching
detective work he discovers that wills
body from the quarry is a fake Joyce
sees will in the upside down and smashed
as a hole in her house to reach him so
and Hwanhee shows up a little later he
thinks that she's crazy and tries to get
Joyce to face reality popper meanwhile
is still on a crime fighting spree out
there breaking into Hawkins lab and
finding the gate you know for a super
secret government facility they are
really susceptible to be in ease the
guards knock out hopper but they let him
go with a warning to mind his own
business and apparently this is also the
nicest super-secret government facility
Oh people keep breaking in oh come on
just a slap on the wrist get out of here
you rapscallion on the day of wills
funeral the kids ask mr. Clark how they
could contact a parallel dimension and
to make a long story short mr. Clark
tells them that they would need a huge
power source
if only there was some sort of super
secret government facility nearby Joyce
finds that Lonnie is only there to try
to get money from Will's death and kicks
him out meanwhile hopper wakes up and
realizes that his place is bugged he
finds the bug and tells Joyce that she
was right all along
Dustin discovers that his compass is
acting strangely and that they can use
it to find the gate the kids set out but
11 manipulates the compass to lead them
in a circle afraid to go back to Hawkins
lab the kids get in a big fight and 11
uses her powers to push Lucas she runs
off by herself and Lucas decides to go
out on his own then Nancy and Jonathan
go monster hunting nancy falls into the
upside-down but Jonathan pulls her out
and they go back to Nancy's house to
spend the night unfortunately
Toto's Africa did not play that night
but Steve who's there to apologize sees
them through the window and is very
upset because apparently none of these
teenagers have heard of curtains this
sounds like a peeping toms dream a day
later and it's time for a road trip
Joyce and hub visit Terry Ives and her
sister Becky tells them all about her
time in MKULTRA and about Jay Terry's
daughter meanwhile Nancy and Jonathon
gear up for their next round of monster
hunting with like a gun and everything
good thing Nancy's a good shot in town
they see what Steven has two goons have
painted on the movie theater Steve and
Jonathan get into a fight and Jonathan
gets arrested
Connie Fraser the nice guy eraser sorry
I still can't believe that's her name
visits mr. Clark to ask about the kids
now who else felt a deep and visceral
fear during this scene protect mr. Clark
he is trying his best Lucas goes on a
cool solo adventure with his dad's NAM
gear his compass leads him to Hawkins
lab where he sees a bunch of vans like
the ones that have been parked around
town Mike and Dustin are out in the
woods looking for el but instead run
into Troy the bully and his lackeys Troy
makes Mike jump into the quarry but 11
shows up levitates Mike to safety and
breaks Troy's arm as they get back to
town lucas warns them that the bad men
are coming
time for the 80s bike chase seed the
kids hide out at the junkyard until
hopper contacts them and tells them that
he can help they'll meet up at the
buyers house on 11 tells them that she
can find will with a sensory deprivation
tank the kids call mr. Clark and find
out just how much salt they're gonna
need to make one and so the whole gang
meets up at the middle school to make
that sensory deprivation tank in the
upside down eleven first locates Barb's
body and then finds will in Kassel
buyers he's still alive afterwards
everyone splits up with Joyce and hop
heading back to the gate to try to get
well back I mean I know it's the 80s but
you know there is a monster out there is
splitting up really the best idea no of
course it isn't Joyce and hopper break
into lab and get caught yet again Nancy
and Jonathan abandon the kids to go set
a trap for the monster at the buyers
house and Steve who realizes he's been a
real asshat shows up to apologize to
Jonathan just in time for the demagogue
and to show up back at the school Mike
and 11:00 sneak in a smooch before all
hell breaks loose
agents show up to get her but so does
the devil Gorgon 11 straight up kills
the agents destroys the demagogue and
also disappears like she literally D
materializes in front of everyone not to
worry though she's just in the upside
down okay maybe a little worried at the
gate Joyce in hot pursuit up like
they're going on a field trip to
Chernobyl they enter the upside down
find will and bring him back to our
world they rush will to the hospital
where he later wakes up and is greeted
by his friends eleven makes her way back
from the upside down the next day and
when she goes to Mike's house she sees
agents there and realizes that she'll
put him in danger if she returns popper
goes off with some government agents who
are therefore unknown but probably no
faras purposes Mike starts trying to
contact eleven via radio and keeps it up
for three hundred and fifty two days
that's dedication meanwhile Elevens been
surviving in the woods living off of
squirrels she even knocks out a hunter
and takes his coat for the winter a few
weeks later and Mike will Dustin and
Lucas are back to playing D&D in Mike's
basement Nancy and Steve are still
together and they give Jonathan a new
camera for Christmas when he comes to
pick up will when they get home will
coughs up a slug thing and sees the
upside down briefly in the bathroom that
same night hopper ghosts from the police
Christmas party to leave some mangoes
for 11:00 in the woods eleven finds them
and the next day she sees that it's
hopper leaving them for her and then
they go to his grandfather's cabin and
begin living there like a weird paranoid
but surprisingly wholesome family so
that wraps up the events of season 1 but
before we head into season two there's a
few details we have to cover to set the
whole thing up between December of 1983
and October of 1984 Sam Owens replaces
Brenner as the director of Hawkins lab
after the whole upside-down ordeal
starts going to the lab to be monitored
and studied and a second gate to the
upside down forms underneath the lab and
tunnels from underneath Hawkins all
while they're trying to burn the
original gate closed in the lab but
don't worry all of that work is about to
be undone Alexi and a team of Russian
scientists are trying to rip the gate to
the upside down open again this time
they're using a device called the key
their attempt fails and boris and
natasha here give him one year to figure
it out also joyce begins dating local
nerd bob newbie how where do you think
it would have been for Sean ask them to
be in a show that's an homage to his
best-known movie The Goonies what is
that not his best-known movie well what
is oh yeah yep yep okay all right and at
some point Billy and Max move to Hawkins
from California which they aren't super
hype about season 2 on the mine flare
October 29th to December 15th 1984 ok so
season 2 finally starts in Pittsburgh
remember Kelly Elevens psychic roommate
from Hawkins lab okay well she and a
your version of the Suicide Squad are
being chased by the cops and Kelly uses
her mind powers to make the cops think
that she blew up a tunnel back in
Hawkins the boys go to the new palace
arcade to play Dragon's Lair dustin
finds that many of his high scores have
been beaten by a mysterious gamer called
mad max will seize the upside down again
and mike finds him in the parking lot
acting strange the next day is Max and
Billy's first day at Hawkins middle and
high and you know the boys find out that
mad max's real identity is max will goes
to the Hawkins lab for a checkup and dr.
Owens tells Joyce and Hopper that things
are gonna be harder for him around the
anniversary of his disappearance
also there's Murray Bauman the
journalist private investigator local
loon whatever he is he's looking into
the mystery of what happened last year
hopper investigates the spooky dying
pumpkin mystery but doesn't think too
much of it Nancy and Steve have dinner
with Barb's parents turns out they're
selling their house to pay Murray Bauman
to investigate Barb's disappearance of
course Nancy feels very guilty about it
Mike is still trying to contact eleven
but she's stuck in the cabin hoping to
go out for Halloween but hopper says
going outside would be stupid even in
costume and promises to bring her candy
tomorrow night will has another vision
and sees the new monster the mine flare
outside his house he later draws a
picture of it the boys dressed as the
Ghostbusters at school for Halloween but
no one else dresses up so they just look
cool all on their own Dustin and Lucas
asked max to go trick-or-treating with
them and it goes about as well as you
would expect after school Billy picks up
max and notices that she seems to like
their new town and
sets billy off and when he sees mike
dustin and lucas on the road he tries to
run them over hoppers still having a
pumpkin adventure and learns that the
crops are dying in other farms too
he investigates all day marking all of
the trees that the rod has spread to the
kids go trick or treating taking bob's
video camera with them max shows up and
while Dustin and Lucas are thrilled mike
is not will sees the mine flare again
and Mike find some having an episode
then Mike takes well back to his
basement where they proceeded to talk
about their shared trauma and that is
what friendship is made of in the realm
of teenagers Steve and Nancy go to a
cool party with more than five people
this time where Steve gets heckled by
Billy the kegstand king and then
Jonathan shows up and mistakes an
obvious Siouxsie Sioux costume for kiss
cuz Jonathan is secretly a poser I guess
Steve and Nancy getting a very high
school fight and Jonathan takes her home
after she gets drunk
Elevens Halloween is a lot quieter she's
still stuck in the cabin getting
impatient waiting for hopper to get home
so she tries to contact Mike when he
finally gets home late hopper and L have
a heated argument Dustin gets home from
trick-or-treating and finds a strange
little pollywog creature in his trash
he takes it inside and feeds it a 3
Musketeers bar and names a d'Artagnan
dart for sure the next day hopper traces
pumpkin death back to the Hawkins lab
what shocked he gives dr. Owens a real
dressing-down and oh it's decides to
help investigate the pumpkin deaths
Billy gets all up in Steve's business
and basketball practice and then Steve
and Nancy have another argument so it's
bad day for Steve
Dustin brings dart to school to impress
max and mr. Clark which may not have
been the best idea because dart escapes
and the kids spent all afternoon looking
for him although they still don't
explain what's going on to max
Bob tells Joyce he saw kids on the
videotape from last night picking on
will but when Joyce watches the tape she
sees the outline of the mind flare and
recognizes it from Will's picture
meanwhile 11 who's still angry at hopper
decides to leave the cabin to go see
Mike she happens to see Mike and max
together on her way and she gets jealous
and it gets the best of her and she
makes max fall off her skateboard which
is probably a decent outcome we already
know that 11 is capable of way worse
Nancy and Jonathan start their plan to
get hashtag justice for barb rollin by
calling her parents knowing that the
goons at Hawkins lab are going to be
listening while looking for dart will
seize the upside down again and after a
motivational talk with poor well-meaning
Bob will tries to confront the mind
flare only to have it possess his body
that's ed to big whoops
Joyce finds him at school unable to move
and take some home convinced something
is happening
Dustin finds dart and brings him home
but doesn't tell the others who think
that dart is a threat 11 gets back to
the cabin and has a huge fight with
hopper when he takes away her TV as
punishment for leaving the house she
even uses her powers on him Nancy and
Jonathan are being stalked by Hawkins
lab agents disguised as 80's suburban
i'ts I mean it is the 80s so I guess
they're just suburban Heights at that
point they're taken to Hawkins lab and
Owens tells them to not look into Barb's
death anymore the lab henchmen don't
search their bags at all though and
Nancy records the whole thing did they
learn nothing from all of the other
times people broke into the lab last
year it's like they want to get caught
at school Steve finds out that Nancy and
Jonathon are both skipping and has a
weird shower scene with Billy Billy's
got a real fixation with Steve we'll
starts making drawings to explain the
mine flare to Jason hopper and they
connect the drawings to make a weird
kind of map Mike realizing will isn't at
school goes to his house to make sure
he's okay only to be sucked into the
insanity hopper seems to figure out what
the drawings are of and goes off to
investigate without explaining to anyone
else or telling them where he's going he
only says that they're vines which is
super not helpful he climbs down the
nightmare hole and then he immediately
gets bored in the face
back in the cabin 11 finds a box with
information about Hawkins lab including
a file about her mother Terry she tries
to contact Terry and the void and Terry
seems to see her Dustin gets home and
finds that dart has eaten his cat at
which point he finally figures out that
dart is is a bad hey guys don't let it
get to this point
no the warning signs that the strange
creature in your trash is actually a
monster from another dimension sign one
it doesn't look like any known species
sign to you live in a town that's prone
to monsters and weird things and three
it likes Three Musketeers once the lab
guys let them go Jonathan and Nancy
check into a hotel for some reason they
don't put on Toto's Africa so I'm not
really sure why they don't just go home
one day later will tells Joyce and Mike
that he saw hopper having some kind of
trouble with in the tunnels man if only
hopper had told them what he was doing
Bob Newby shows up and thinks they're
having some sort of very intense
orienteering adventure and figures out
what the map is showing it's the town of
Hawkins he uses his cool nerd skills to
locate hopper and they all rush out to
the pumpkin patch to try to find them at
the arcade Lucas privately tells max
about what happened last year 11 the
upside-down the demagogue and the whole
thing and of course max doesn't believe
him
Dustin gears up and traps dart in his
cellar but when he radios the game
they're all busy so he gets helped from
Steve Harrington monster Slayer and hair
icon unfortunately by the time Steve
gets the Dustin's place dart has already
burrowed through the cellar wall and
escaped back in the lab the scientists
test the soil sample and find out that
the evil vines hate fire and it all
reacts at once with some sort of hive
mind 11 hitchhikes to her mom's house in
sees Terry after suffering trauma at the
hands of Hawkins lab Terry is only able
to say a small selection of words but 11
and Terry connect in the void and
elevenses what happened to her back in
1974 including getting her first glimpse
of Callie with the information she
needed in hand 11 steal some money and
goes off to find her sister collie Bob
Joyce Mike and will find the hole to the
upside down tunnels and save hopper as
they're pulling him out the lab techs
show up in full hazmat gear and try to
burn all the gross vines but as soon as
the fire starts will starts convulsing
and is rushed to the lab still
determined a nancy and jonathan drive
out to meet with Baumann they correct
his messed-up timeline and tell him what
really happened last year they all agree
to send Nancy's recording to newspapers
as evidence and they celebrate with some
vodka and of course Nancy and Jonathan
finally hook up it's another bad day for
Steve eleven locates Callie in Chicago
with the knock off Doom Patrol they show
each other their lab tattoos and Callie
recognizes her later that night will
wakes up in the lab but it started to
lose his memory forgetting dr. Owens Bob
and hopper by that next morning dr.
Owens tells Joyce and hopper that will
is connected to the hive mind via the
virus that infected him when the mine
flare touched him Nancy and Jonathan
have a very awkward breakfast with
Baumann before heading back to the
buyers house there they find wills
drawings and an empty case for Polaroid
film Polaroid is too mainstream for
Jonathan so they know that someone else
was in the house they head back for the
Hawkins lab Dustin and Steve go out to
try to catch Dart at which point Steve
tells Dustin his hairspray secrets it's
a very important bonding moment for
everyone's favorite dad Steve and it's
also a very important plot moment so
it's a good thing I mentioned it back in
Chicago Callie helps 11 train her powers
using the void 11 locates one of the old
workers from Hawkins lab who's
responsible for her mother's shock
treatment 11 gets another makeover but
this one did not inspire nearly as many
Halloween costumes can't win them all
Lucas convinces max that he can prove
that everything he said yesterday is
true they meet up with Dustin and Steve
to captured art who's grown into a
full-blown Demidov they all end up at
the junkyard again and a whole bunch of
other demo dogs show up and attack them
at this point max finally believes Lucas
I mean they nearly got eaten thankfully
the mine flare calls the damage
but the mind flayer wasn't just showing
them mercy after using will to get the
lab guys into the tunnels it six all the
demo dogs on them from there the demo
dogs attack the lab mike realizes that
the mind flare has completely possessed
will so he tells joyce to drug him so
they can escape to a safe location
hopper joyce will Mike Bob and dr. Owens
hide in the surveillance room but the
lab loses power for reasons eleven and
the Superfriends go to confront the
retired Hawkins lab employee ray Carroll
when they get to Ray's house Callie
tries to convince eleven to kill him for
what he did to her mother but Ray's got
kids so eleven feels bad about getting
revenge
she even stops Callie from killing him
which Callie's not cool with max and
Billy's parents come home to find Billy
getting ready for a date with max
nowhere to be found Billy's dad forces
him to cancel the date and go find max
so you know Billy Billy mad the rest of
the gang meets up with Jonathan and
Nancy at the gates of the lab and
realized that the others are trapped
inside back in Chicago the secret six
are ambushed by the cops they managed to
escape but eleven decides to go back to
Hawkins to help Mike and hopper in the
control room Bob's cool nerd skills mean
he has to be the one to go down to the
basement and reset the breakers and
restore power to the lab and that is why
I never learned to code and not because
I'm super lazy once Bob clears a path
everyone escapes except dr. Owens who
remains in the control room and Bob gets
so close to making it but he gets mauled
by a demo dog can we pour one out for
Bob new be gone too soon everyone else
head back to the buyers house and comes
up with a plan they hide their location
from the will flare by disguising the
buyers shed and questioning him while
the real will can't talk to them
directly he taps out a message in Morse
code and tells them to close gate but
just then the phone rings and the will
flare figures out where they are
everyone prepares for an all-out demo
dog attack but before the dogs can wreak
their 11 shows up and wrecks them first
after a tearful reunion it's decided
that 11 will close the gate and hopper
will go with her Jonathan Nancy and
Joyce take a sedated will to hoppers
cabin so they can force the mine flare
out of him meanwhile bill tries to pick
up Nancy's mom
way to go Karen dust and Mike Lukas and
Max decide to go to the tunnels under
the pumpkin patch and set them on fire
to draw the demo dogs away from the lab
but before they can Billy shows up to
take max home they have a big gnarly
fight and Billy pretty much kicked
Steve's ass okay I'm starting to think
that Steve doesn't just have bad days it
just sucks to be him max finally sedates
Billy and they steal his car and head
off to the tunnels with Anne
conscious Steve in the back seat in
hoppers cabin joyce jonathan and nancy
forced the mind flare from well just
full exorcist style back in the tunnels
team steve set fire to the vines and
managed to draw the demo dog's attention
and who comes to their rescue
but dart yeah i guess he wasn't all bad
in the lab eleven basically goes full
super saiyan she uses colleagues
training unleashes her anger and finally
closes the gate hopefully for good this
time but you know there is a season
three so at some point over the next few
weeks bobbins evidence is released and
hawkins lab closes in the following
media frenzy barb finally gets her
funeral and Bauman goes on to
investigate chemtrails or something
popper gets a birth certificate from
doctor owens and now eleven is
officially jane hopper and finally the
moment we've all been waiting for the
snowball dance mike and eleven dance
together max and lucas dance together
well dances with some random girl and
dustin dances with nancy isn't that
sweet oh wait not so fast because the
mine flower is still over hawkins middle
school in the upside down at some point
after that the russians discovered that
the secret to opening the gate is
location location location they start
secret operations in hawkins buying up
land and opening the star court mall
with the help of mayor wesley from the
Princess Bride
season three June 28th to July 4th 1985
and then October much later season three
begins and we get a nice update on all
of our friends Mike and eleven are now
dating and spend all of their time
making out much to hoppers chagrin Billy
is working as a lifeguard at the public
pool much to the delight of mrs. wheeler
and all of the other Cougars in town
Nancy and Jonathan have a job at the
Hawkins post where all the men
unfortunately treat Nancy like trash
stay strong Nancy hopper and Joyce have
grown closer after bonding over how hard
it is the parent teenagers who won't
stop making out and of course the star
Court mall is the talk of the town will
Lucas Max and Mike all head to the brand
new joys of capitalism Center I mean the
the mall they they go to the mall while
watching Day of the Dead wills Flair
sense starts tingling moments later a
massive power outage sweeps Hawkins this
is probably due to the Russians in the
basement testing the key outside of town
we see the abandoned brim born
steelworks and a plagues worth of rats
fun fact a group of rats is called a
mischief however these rats aren't so
much mischievious as nightmare inducing
the next day Dustin comes back from
science camp and everyone decides to
surprise him earning Lucas of face full
of pepper spray
after calming down it's had dustin shows
the gang his coolest invention from camp
a radio he calls cerebro the gang
ventures out to one of the highest
points in town and tries to use cerebro
to call Dustin's new gorgeous genius
girlfriend Suzy but she doesn't answer
also she might not be real after
everyone else is left to make out her in
wills case contemplate the existential
dread of your friends changing and
growing apart mood I feel that food
Dustin picks up a Russian transmission
meanwhile Hopper continues to act like a
sweaty angry dad and complaints to Joyce
about Mike and eleven Joyce offers some
advice to hopper that he should maybe I
don't know who sit down and actually
talk to the kids but he's not gonna
follow that because season fold sweaty
angry dad mode Nancy is working late at
the Hawkins post and takes a call from
mrs. Driscoll about her rat problem it
sounds suspicious and gross and Nancy's
interest is piqued
later hopper decides to have his talk
with Mike and Elle but instead of
following Joyce's script he submits to
toxic masculinity and gives Mike the
hold stay away from my daughter
song and dance and as we all know that
strategy always works actually in Mike's
case I kind of does
later that night Billy drives out to
meet mrs. wheeler and something hits his
car he stumbles into brimm born
steelworks and the mind flare possesses
him was the mind flare waiting for Billy
or did it just grab the first person to
drive by we may never know the next day
Harper awkwardly asks Joyce on a date
and then says it's not a date which I
mean yeah we all saw through that one
dude
Joyce is kind of preoccupied though she
notices that the magnets at the store
are demagnetized just like she noticed
her own magnets at home recently she
goes to see mr. Clark who honestly could
have used more screen time this season
because he's seriously turning a look in
that garage and listening to Weird Al
and he's my favorite but whatever he
explains what kind of machine could
cause the magnets to stop working and in
short a really really big one
later hopper goes to Town Hall after
getting a call from the mayor about
people protesting the mall popper
arrests the protesters just as his
secretary shows up with a JCPenney bag
so I guess we know which side he's on
hopper puts on his special cutting edge
shirt and heads to his not date date
with Joyce side note that shirt is
giving me some serious
Rocko's Modern Life vibes and I'm okay
with that sadly the powers of the shirt
are trumped by the powers of magnets how
do they work and joy Stan's hopper up
but love isn't dead in Hawkins Nancy and
than intrepid reporters go to get the
scoop on mrs. Driscoll she shows them
the fertilizer that's been eaten and
also one of the rats she's caught that's
been acting strange and here's a little
PSA for you all if you think a rat has
rabies don't catch it and keep it in
your house Jonathan tries to convince
Nancy that rabies is a legit explanation
for a tumorous fertilizer guard rat but
she doesn't buy it meanwhile we see
Billy again and he's looking row bad
disoriented he attacks his coworker
Heather and brings her to the steelworks
where she also becomes flayed Dustin
abandoned biased party visits everyone's
favorite hair god steve at his new
ice-cream job at scoops ahoy and tells
him about the secret Russian
transmission Steve's co-worker Robin
overhears them and being a polyglot and
band geek herself offers to help
translate she cracks him before their
shift is over and while leaving Steve
realizes that the music in the
background of the recording came from
inside the mall Mike still hasn't
recovered from the talk that Hopper gave
him so he lies to eleven about why
they're not hanging out he pulls the
classic my grandma's super sick excuse
but Ella's suspicious she goes to find
Max who consults her with the
time-honored tradition of a trip to the
mall QA Dee's dressing-room montage
after running into Mike at the mall and
catching him in his lie 11 dumps his ass
Max spends the night at Al's house to
hoppers delight you know since it's not
Mike and all they use Elevens powers to
spy on people which I guess is their
version of making prank calls or
whatever but with an uncanny psychic
connection doesn't seem like a great
idea if you ask me sure enough L sees
Billy and a tied-up Heather but more
upsetting Li Billy sees Elle on July 1st
max on 11 go back to the Hargrove house
to confront Billy they find a bathtub
full of ice which considering it's
summer is the weirdest thing but they do
find Heather's fanny pack and a bloody
whistle they go to the pool and learn
Heather's identity and the fact that she
hasn't come to work today L finds her
address in the void and Heather cries
for help
Joyce tells a dismissive hopper about
the magnets and her research with mr.
Clark Hopper initially acts like a jerk
but finally sees reason and agrees to go
with her to break in noggins lab you
know for old times sake will tries to
distract Mike and Lukas Lukas is kind of
constantly walking a tightrope with
Max's girlfriend from their troubles
with Dungeons and Dragons but neither
one is into it will gets upset and
leaves and Mike yells at his friend for
being gay which is
cool dude in what is genuinely one of
the most gut-wrenching moments of the
series will destroys castle buyers in a
fit of anger after getting a delivery
from the Linx company Robin figures out
that the secret Russian code is
referring to locations in the mall and a
time after work Robin Dustin and Steve
head up to the roof where at 9:45 a
bunch of Russians with machine guns
deliver packages into a secret storage
room also can I go on a tangent and say
that the transmission kind doesn't make
sense
the Russians clearly own the mall and
they're not really being sneaky with
their weapons so why have a secret code
about where to drop off the supplies
wouldn't the delivery guys just know
seems like a good way have your whole
operation blown wide open by a bunch of
children but maybe I'm just watching too
much of the Americans Max and L stopped
by Heather's house where she's having
dinner with Billy and her parents
they're acting strange but Max and L
leave anyway after they leave it's
revealed that Heather poisoned her
mother and she and Billy attack her
father who's the editor in chief of the
Hawkins post both parents are brought to
brim Warren and are also flayed kind of
divine justice after Heather's dad was a
dick to Nancy at the lab which is just
as easy to break into as ever but this
time it makes sense since it's pretty
much abandoned Joyce and hopper go on a
wacky journey through the lab and it's
all fun and games until they encounter
this knockoff of somehow both
Schwarzenegger and Robert Patrick in the
Terminator movies all rolled into one
package who was apparently called
grigory record kicks hoppers ass and
escapes on his motorcycle but not before
Joyce gets his license plate number well
kind of
Joyce leaves the lab presumably dragging
hopper with her meanwhile Jonathan and
Nancy go back to mrs. Driscoll's house
again they find here eating fertilizer
in her basement and call the police who
take her to the hospital
hopper wakes up naked which sounds more
like something I'd read in a fanfiction
but just roll with it Joyce tells him
about the motorcycle and hopper
remembers a man he saw a town hall at
town hall hopper does some big crime and
tortures the mayor for information
naturally he finds out that this Ivan
Drago type dude works for the Russians
and their whole mall scheme is revealed
Nancy and Jonathan are fired by
Heather's father Tom who is now one of
the mine flares minions for pursuing the
rats story on the drive home Nancy and
Jonathan get into a fight
Jonathan's angry that Nancy doesn't
understand what it's like to be poor and
Nancy is frustrated that Jonathan
doesn't understand how hard it is to be
a working woman at home Nancy actually
talks to her mom about what happened
unlike in previous seasons and the two
have a really nice moment when mrs.
wheeler encourages her daughter to get
back out there and prove her haters
wrong Ellen Mack shared their Discovery
about Billy & Co with Mike Lucas and
will will tells them all about his flare
sense tingling and he thinks that the
mind flare was trapped in their world
when L closed the gate they decide to
test if Billy's possessed by trapping
him in the sauna at the pool
unfortunately for them possessed Billy
uses sad brother and it's super
effective he escapes and nearly kills
Elle before she fights him off at scoops
ahoy Robyn is the second most competent
character on the show and bribes someone
to get the blueprints to the star Court
mall she finds out there's an air duct
that conveniently leads right from their
back room to the secret storage room
they're all too big though so they
enlist Erika Lucas's capitalism loving
younger sister and the first most
competent person on the show for the job
Erika makes it through and lets the
others into the storeroom where they
discover a strange green substance that
looks like one of those gel hourglasses
or like the ooze from the Ninja Turtles
movies I don't know they push the wrong
button though and are trapped in the
room which is actually an elevator and
it then descends into the depths of the
mall meanwhile Nancy goes to the
hospital to get more information about
mrs. Driscoll but the old lady starts to
convulse and shout and the staff at this
hospital are definitely too chill about
all this while the kids are getting up
to their own high jinks Joyce and hopper
try to bring a Russian operative they
found Alexi to Illinois so Murray Bauman
can translate for them since neither
Joyce nor hopper can speak Russian
hoppers car explodes so he does more
crime and steals a car from a guy to
7-eleven which is a yellow convertible
nice after placating Alexi with product
placement he tells them that the
Russians want to open the gate and
Hawkins is the best place to do it
at the wheelers Nancy and Jonathan meet
up with the kids they realize Tom
Holloway's also possessed by the mind
flare and as a group go to the
Holloway's house to check it out there's
just a lot of kids standing around in
these scenes they find a bunch of empty
chemical bottles and realized that the
mind flare is transforming its human
host into something new
Nancy tells everyone about what happened
with mrs. Driscoll in the hospital and
they decided to go see her hoping the
old woman will lead them to the mind
flare at the hospital which is about as
secure as the Hawkins lab Nancy and
Jonathan find out that mrs. Driscoll is
missing the mind flare sends Tom and
Busey no way I'd wait the other busey to
stop Jonathan and Nancy the two flayed
reporters melt into puddles of human
slime and reform as a monster the jeans
get their asses kicked before L yet
again say
the day but the slime escapes through
the sewers meanwhile the scoops troop
sneaks out of the wonkavator and see the
Russians using the key to try to open
the upside-down Robin and Steve are
captured by the Russians while Erica and
Dustin escape on the 4th of July hopper
calls the FBI and uses his connections
with dr. Owens to demand backup much to
Marie's dismay while hoppers calling for
backup Grigory meets mayor Westley at
the Hawkins Fun Fair and tells him that
he has one day to find hopper in the lab
under star court mall the Russians are
not endeared by Steve Saylor outfit
which as far as I'm concerned makes
little robots because what the hell who
doesn't think this is adorable
they beat up Steve and then inject him
and Robin with truth serum thinking the
kids are spies the gaggle of other
children head back to hoppers cabin to
try to find Billy mike is very angry and
protective about overusing l's powers
but only because he's scared of losing
her again looking for Billy turns out to
be a mistake though as Billy can still
see L and now knows where she is
but L is also able to see into Billy's
memories just like with her mother and
sees the trauma that drove him to be a
bully Billy tell Zelda mind flayer is
going to take over Hawkins and that is
assembling an army to fight her at the
steelworks the meat mine flare the or
the meat flare I guess absorbs all of
its hosts and becomes huge it heads to
hoppers cabin to attack the kids who
hold themselves up instead of running
after being bitten the leg L again saves
the day and the group escapes hiding a
supermarket Dustin tells Erica about
what's happened over the last two years
and discovers that she's also a nerd as
well as delivering a treatise on my
little pony they save Steve and Robin
from the Russians and Dustin tasers the
evil doctor kills the doctor whatever
they escaped back into the mall and plop
these still drug to teens down to watch
some time-travel movies starring Alex
peak eating from family ties while
Dustin makes a distress call to the
party
Joyce hopper Murray and Alexey head to
the Hawkins fair to find their children
Joyce and hopper run off looking for
them while Murray shows Alexi the glory
of American culture
what a fantastic blossoming friendship
that isn't at all dude Alexi has a
wonderful time at the fair winning a
Woody Woodpecker toy when he's shot by
grigory in the second most heartbreaking
moment of the season well you were taken
too soon you trashed food-loving Soviet
Prince after a John wick fight scene in
a funhouse hopper Joyce and Murray
managed to escape the fair but not
before Joyce pops the mayor right in the
Humperdinck saw The Princess Bride
references getting to be a bit too much
that should be fine they pick up a
Russian message about children at the
food court and head to the mall on the
way there Marie does his weird sexual
tension thing again Robin and Steve
still drugged leave the movie and have a
heart-to-heart in the cleanest movie
theater bathroom known to man Steve
tells Robin about his feelings for her
and Robin comes out to Steve who is
extremely cool about it which makes
Steve the hare Harrington a better
friend than Mike in my book at the
supermarket Lucas has the genius idea of
using fireworks to fight the monster
Mike tries to have a heart-to-heart with
Elle while tending to her wound but is
interrupted by Dustin's distress call
using the void again L finds the scoops
troupe at the mall and the gang head
there arriving just in time for Elvis
save the scoops troupe from the Russians
after the fight L finds a growth in her
leg and we go straight into John
Carpenter body horror territory when
Jonathan tries to remove it L finally
removes it herself because she can do
that with her powers but unfortunately
she has to use the last of them to make
the extraction the adults arrive at the
mall and amid the absolute chaos of all
of the characters piecing together the
entire season with everybody else in
like 20 seconds everyone forms a plan
popper Joyce and Marie will go into the
base the scoops troop drive off to act
as their radio guides while the other
kids will take L to safety at Marie's
but before they can get away the meet
flare shows up with Billy the meet flare
is distracted by Lucas a slingshot and
Max Mike and L make a break for it Lucas
will Nancy and Jonathan make it outside
and are saved from Billy bye Robin and
Steve who had just booked it from their
previous location the kids pile in the
car and drive off luring the meet flare
away from L Mike and Max Hopper and
Joyce need Planck's constant to get into
the lab as a password but no one
remembers it and I was gonna try to
explain what Planck's constant is but I
have no idea it's something about
electromagnetism and photons and I don't
know I just read these things Dustin
tries calling Susy again who not only
turns out to be real but comes in with
the clutch save by rattling off the
number but only after bringing the plot
to a grinding halt while they sing the
theme to have a neverending story which
I don't even know I I liked it I hated
it I've made my peace with it at this
point
Billy corners the kids at the mall and
knocks out max and Mike the mine flare
comes back to possess Al and the others
returned and Pelt it with fireworks but
can't destroy it before they run out Al
manages to get through to Billy and
remind him who he is he sacrifices
himself to the mine
to save her popper and Joyce make it to
the lab but are attacked by grigory
Joyce is in the position to shut down
the key but hopper is close to the
machine close enough that he'll be
killed in the explosion when the portal
is forced closed he nods and tells her
it's okay today is a good day to die the
key explodes it vaporizes all the
Russians in the vicinity and presumably
hopper by the way Suzie demanding Dustin
sing the theme to the neverending story
took way too long and hopper probably
would have been saved if she had just
said the number Suzy kill hopper hashtag
Suzie killed hopper in the food court
the mind flare has finally been
destroyed cut off from the upside-down
dr. Owens arrives with the cavalry at
Star Court and takes over the Russian
base with ease so mission accomplished
in the parking lot will is reunited with
Joyce but xi realizes that hopper didn't
make it which is Susie's fault over the
next few months the Battle of Star Court
is covered up as a fire that killed
hopper and many others mayor Klein is
arrested for his connection with the
incident which is his actual name I
realize I haven't said it throughout
this entire video an extremely factual
TV news program called the cutting edge
releases a preview for a program that
covers all those strange events and
Hawkins over the past few years in
Kamchatka Russia a prisoner is fed to a
demagogue in but more importantly the
guards refer to another unseen prisoner
as the American who could it be
I'm guessing it's Bauman but I'm usually
wrong about these things by October
things seem to be back to normal in
Hawkins or as normal as they can ever
get for example Steve and Robin get jobs
at a video rental store well Robin gets
the job she kind of has to convince them
to hire Steve eleven still doesn't have
her powers back but Mike is sure they'll
return Mike finally tells al he loves
her and she tells him that she loves him
too Joyce and her boys are moving
understandably and L being without a
guardian is going with them while
packing though Joyce finds hoppers
letter from before he had the
heart-to-heart with Mike you know the
letter he never read anyway she gives it
to L who reads it and it's very
emotional and if you didn't cry at this
part you're either a monster or have
probably been possessed by one the kids
make plans to see each other at
Thanksgiving and the buyer's family
drives away and that's everything that's
happened in all three seasons of
stranger things so far am i wrong is
Hopper the American is Murray Bauman the
next to go we know how this show feels
about the letter B will L get her powers
back Netflix hasn't even officially
renewed the series for a fourth season
yet so we've got
long way to go before we'll know for
sure I've been Jacob with cinematic ax
and thanks for watching
[Music]